Yeah.
So guys, the problem with the above approach that as using two pointers was that we were climbing one
by one above, right?
So now here what we'll be doing is we won't be climbing one step ahead.
Now we will be using the power of the binding numbers with this hope that any any number can be written
is the sum of binding numbers.
That is sum of two sum of powers of two eight.
That means ten considered energy +25 isn't an it's four plus one and so on.
The binding numbers, I hope you are very well aware of the binding numbers because that is the basic
foundation of computer science.
Eight.
Okay.
So what we'll do is when whenever we're asked to find that.
Okay, find, see of you and we then first of all, we know the difference between the depth of you
and we will simply cover that up by using binary numbers.
I tell you what.
How and why.
And.
After that, we will.
Like over the next steps too, with the help of binding.
Let's understand how they the first of all, the prerequisites for this stable body, the spice table
and what is binding lifting do not variable by lifting.
It's very clear we are lifting our self in binding numbers eight instead of going 111 step ahead.
We are moving in powers of two.
So.
Let's find out what it is by staple gun.
So, first of all, I think I should give you a use of it.
If I if I give you a use of it, then you will be able to understand this basketball very nicely.
Is let's see.
I want to I want to I want 11 and I want to jump deep earrings above.
More three buildings above me.
Plus, jump, stick, jump and third jump.
They still here.
If I like it natively, by using the value we have, then it will take us over three time rate.
But how contributed in its binary numbers?
It is two plus one.
Right to the power one let's do to the power zero.
That is equal to three in binding numbers.
What we do is we are on 11.
We will climb to do to do the power first period of 11, which is five will climb directly because that's
what spots people will do.
It will store all the utility power eight periods of every note.
Eight.
So.
Don't worry.
It's very interesting.
And we will be responsible for this whole tree and understand it in more detail.
Now, guys, we are on five eight, so four five which bit into a need for fight.
I need to do the power zero speed four five which is what is to dibaba zero.
It is one that means the first variant of I.
Always.
So after this, I'll simply go to.
What happens is I have a I have a difference.
I want to climb this difference.
Right.
So this difference can be there.
Dennis is was off to.
Okay.
So if the difference is ten, then it's simply eight plus to eight.
And guys, when we trade some differences, powers of two or as a binding number, they are only log
off and which they are only log of Enbridge eight.
So that's what we are trying to use here that we only need log of ten jumps to move anywhere in metric
only log, often five because we are claiming the powers of two eight.
So no matter how big the number is, we will simply claim the powers of two and we will use less than
log of in numbers eight, less than log of and jumps to move wherever we want to do it.
So let's see if the difference between the depth of you in we is hundred.
Then how will we climate?
Firstly, on whichever nerd I am, I simply go to its 64th period because it's faster, but I already
stored what is it, 64th period.
How will it stored?
I'll tell you eight.
I'm just telling you the use of it.
So they begin to understand where will use this possible.
So.
Yeah, so.
I know it is true that the power six less, but can I add 32 to it?
Yes.
So to deliver five, it will become nine this six.
Eight.
And then it is to the the power to that is for.
64 players are ready to play for this.
I hope this is very clear, guys, that if I want if I want any, not you.
I want to go to its hundredth period.
And so, Ed, jump on one step ahead.
Like climb above and go to the hundredth period.
All what I can do is I can simply.
Jump in terms of binding numbers.
That is directly down to its to do with our expedient.
Then it's totally over 50%.
And then it's who do they bother to experience?
So the total jump jumps out really.
And how much distance I have covered.
Hundred distance.
So we we are using the powers of 19 numbers here again.
They in every number can be written, some off, powers off.
So this is binding lifting.
I know how to do it.
Let's first of all understand how to calculate spice table.
Okay.
So as we know.
Let me.
I did two spots.
Again, it's very easy.
It just takes one lines of code.
What's happening here.
It just takes one lines of code to figure out the spice table.
It needs a total understanding.
Also, let's understand how to calculate the spice table.
So sparse tables.
Length will be.
Let's say it's a day.
Well, as we can easily see, it's a metrics say.
It will be a metrics.
But some columns, letters and columns in the end.
Rows and columns.
Eight.
Andrews.
Okay.
What does let's let me name this table as parent only.
Right, because that's ridiculous.
Okay.
But parent icon magic.
What will this tell mean?
What is parent either in a spice table?
In a spot table?
What does a row, i.e., and column did it present?
It represents the.
Due to the power jet parent off.
A very simple.
What does it represent to the Devolver digital parent of a bull?
So let me like name this.
One, two, three, four, five, six, one and.
Here we have this.
Really big table.
So I put for that one.
Okay.
They'll bring forward when I'll be running the gold medal won the gold.
I'll bring the table right before understanding.
Let's make a small pool.
Well, right now I'm just feeling the values and then we will see that.
How will we use dynamic programming in filling up all the the complete table before?
And it's a five.
And then let's see.
Six.
Well.
So.
Yeah, let me fill this one to end.
See, we won't be needing more than three because we have only six nodes, so we have only six nodes.
Then what can be the maximum height of the tree?
If it's a team, right?
If it's a twin, what is the height of it?
Log of orphan age.
So what?
Height of orphan?
What should be the M?
Yeah.
What should be the volume size that we need?
It should be log off and.
Hello, girlfriend.
Because.
What is the zeroth column means?
It is during the first question and of every note.
What does the one mean?
It is drawing the second bit of every note where the stream part is doing this, filling the fourth
reading of every note eight due to the above edit or the stream in third column that it is drawing the
eighth period of every note eight days.
So.
In the worst case, I can go to log off and then that will be storing that and it's parent of any of
the log of and column.
Well, let's fill this table.
Guess what?
Every note we want the first reading to be failure rate.
So.
Yeah.
Let's take the color.
Right.
And.
Well, one word is the first word into this.
Zero four to the first word in is one or three the first word and this one for for the first print is
two or five.
The first word in this or and for six, the first period is two.
I hope the first column is very clearly showing the first reading of it right now, guys.
Next, fill the second Colombia.
What does the column number one means?
Tell me what to do about one spinning off.
I i is that one number or is truly about one?
It is second parent of I.
Hey.
So, guys.
Do I think I should fill this first and then we'll discuss how to.
Like doing using dining programming.
What is the second brand of a.
We can see in the second period of -0, second period of do is also zero.
The component of the result to zero figure is second, third, fourth.
All the parents of all the nodes, the if the pairing number is more than the root nor radiates going
above the root node.
So we have a imaginary parent of us.
It is the zero node.
Zero is not a parent of every anyone, but we know that it is an invalid type value.
So we are storing zero there because they do not have any bidding.
But what is a second parent of what it is?
One.
What is.
The grandparent of five, it is two.
That can be enough.
Six is one.
I hope this is very clear.
Now let's build a third column, which is to read about towards the end of a day what it is to deliver
to its parent of three.
So for one it will be 04204302 over two means four.
Right?
So this fourth pattern of eight.
And what is the fourth minute offer?
Zero.
Footprint of five.
Eight.
And what is the fourth spirit of six again?
Zero.
So, guys, after this will all get zeros.
I hope you're getting the standard.
So what is the size of the table and gross and bare amis log in and in the log n is the size of the
table that is, and log in.
Well, guys, now let us figure out how how to fill it in a dynamic programming, how to use DP here,
how to fill this by using dining programming and it's very easy to understand it.
I o.
C.
What every note we have to be afraid of the first meeting we have the first waiting for a note.
We have we have failed the fourth grade in for all its parent and all its ancestors that we worry about
right now.
Guys understand this part.
If I say that parent of icon Maggi.
That means if I am on some vertex, I.
I want to find out.
It's due to the power.
Spitting.
It would be deep poverty.
So I'm on somewhere, Dixie, and I want to find out due to the power it's been offered to.
And I already know that I've calculated all the parents that I've failed, all the parents of all these
nodes for all the ancestors.
Okay.
That means if I'm on fat, if I'm on food, I filled the complete row of one, the complete row of two.
That means I already know all the parents of one order to keep our eye, each parent of ones to keep
our Jupiter of two.
And now I'm on for.
Made by because I will be doing it in a DFS v, but whichever note I go to, I will simply fill it stable
the row of it.
Because for any note, let's say I'm going on node number you right?
And with the ancestor of it, I've already filled the trophy so that I can use the row of we in rule.
You will because in DFS we know this property of DFS rated.
So whenever we come to a note, we've already figured we've already been through its end sisters.
Then only we can come to any node.
Well, before any note, I want to find out.
It's to keep our dear.
Again, I say that what I to keep our dear period will be equal to.
Parent of.
Let's see.
Parent of I.
Ramadi, minus one.
Understand this.
And do minus.
Think about this case.
What does this statement means?
That firstly, what we are saying is that we have actually broken down this to keep our Jane to two
parts.
That is to keep our Jane minus one.
And to keep our Jane minus.
But right before.
But what we are doing is we are trying to fill that role of any note one by one.
First of all, for any note will fill its zeroth parent, then fill will fill.
It took about one period.
They look for any icon magic that is for any say like magic.
We know we have already filled a comedy minus one.
We've already left.
Well, you write that is this a comedy minus one?
And of course, this parent is like some variable.
It is an ancestor.
And so for all the ancestors we have for that whole complete row, we can use J minus one s that is
dynamic programming rate.
What we are trying to do over here is what to do to find to the power determinant of why we are seeing
it is equal to.
Due to the power, dear.
Minus one parent of.
The current corporate rate.
So that that means what I'll have some to do the other day minus one parent.
What that I want to find out to do with you.
Minus one to be.
That will be equal to that to the devour Jasmine.
End of the career note.
That means let me give you a very simple example.
Let's see this.
Okay.
So what do you guys.
What is it?
So confident it's second period is equal to the first variant of the first parent.
Two or three.
If I want to find no second parents, I'm dividing two into one plus one.
That means for the first parent of three, find out its first parent.
Cool.
Well, let's see if I want to find out.
It's parent of three.
Do that, you know?
Right.
So how will you do that?
What does this line actually mean in English?
It means that.
For it.
I'm dividing it into four plus four.
I I'm seeing four three.
These forward spinning, whatever it will be.
Tell me, what is its fourth variant?
Great.
So this is how I'm using dynamic programming here.
This is how this particular.
Because every nation is being thumped or I go -- bidding.
I notice I go my Jew minus one parent.
That is doo doo doo doo minus one.
And find it's true to the Babaji minus one parent, which is already calculated.
Cool.
So let me quote this first and then we'll come back in from this table again so that it becomes more
clear to us.
Hey.
Good.
So, yeah.
This was about LCA but while a single point design.
So let's edit in this quote only it will be better for us.
We are performing a DFS and in this DFS only what we'll do is we'll simply.
Make us positive.
But this variant will now become.
A bigger.
Yeah.
So actually.
So I think.
Fine.
Let's erase all of this.
So let me comment this out, because here the parent error is being used.
But actually I'm alerting the parent daddy.
Right.
So.
Let's.
It is this only.
Don't need it.
Just keep this in mind.
What are the things that we did when we were doing the two pointer technique?
Right.
So here what we have is spirit and Gamma and what will be in.
Let me give an up around of em.
So what will we logo when you fly around.
Don't be right.
Let me give it 20.
So M is equal to 20 but this is the size of the parent added that is the spot stable we are calculating
you need a.
Well, here, let's say we have another depth pool.
So let me separate it out right now.
What we want to do is we want to fill up this bar stable.
As I said, whenever we are, let's fill the 0 to 1 zeroth period of any node which is equal to zero
is one.
Right.
So we are filling the first reading of every note now after this.
What we'll do is we'll simply have a Ford loop.
Let's move off our loop.
Start from one on left side.
It is equal to zero because I've taken it and explained it.
Well, let's find out all the parents of the current road rage.
So what is a parent of?
But is current day goal to raise?
It will be called the parent of.
We didn't of current day minus one you guys but India minus one will be calculated right because we
are starting from Jake was two one that means Jake goes through zero is calculated now when we'll move
forward when J will move forward, then parentheses get a greater rate.
When J is equal to two, then equals two.
One is already calculated.
So that is how bottom up approach of writing programming books.
Right?
So do not get confused.
Do not run this loop in like opposite direction because we need this time.
We already feel like it is fitting of current day.
Minus one.
It's day minus one to.
Always for this guy.
We wanted to do minus one bit.
And of course, guys that is already filled because the DFS is already going over all these ancestors.
And for all these ancestors, this parent daddy.
The whole room for the transistor is already for.
Always.
But this is just a normal calculation for possible, a very easy calculation.
This two lanes approach.
So here we have calculated this positive bill.
Now, let me bring this and let me.
Okay.
So I haven't.
Rather than any of LC apart.
Well.
So let's bring the table.
Right.
So let's start from one.
Let's go to how much?
Well, right.
And let's go over there.
JAY Let's start from zero and then let's go to let's get right to that about food.
Let's go to food only.
The out.
Parent.
I.
All the notes.
Eight.
And before this let's see out I.
Well, so.
Let's let's tally this with the above structural.
So for one, we have all it's based on expanding to be equal to zero.
It's frustrating.
Sprint is the second between 2040088 parent is zero right or to the first grade in this one and that's
dollar zero.
But two or three again the same thing is happening.
Correct.
Or for the first parent is two for four we can see the first one and this doing the second better in
this one.
Correct.
Or fifth again the same thing rate for six.
Also the same thing should happen right now for seven guys, the phosphate industry.
Right.
And this again, but in this one.
Correct.
What's been in this five.
And the second button is true for it.
Correct.
We don't have the fourth variant of it.
Right.
Why?
Because the Ford variant of it is zero eight.
So here we are not calculating first, second and third period, invigorating first, second, fourth,
eight, 16th, and so on, bearing in mind the numbers.
Again.
Now let's go to nine and let's see.
We have the fourth parent of nine, which is fine before nine.
What we have is what's been envisaged seven, but it is five and what is the fourth one in this one?
Okay.
So you can easily see that when we were calculating the fourth variant of nine, fourth variant of nine,
and what we did was tell me the second variant of nine and four that tell me the second period of it.
It's basically like this nine square square instead of nine with about four.
They are finding the sick in Britain and then finding it sick in Britain rather than directly finding
the fourth Briton or just a grandparent of 95.
And what was the fifth, fifth second Briton?
It was one who.
The fourth brand of nine is one.
It's like half of what?
All the powers of two, because by spring we have already calculated for second we need first reading
before we need second reading for aid.
We need food waiting and so on.
Okay.
So that's dynamic programming for you guys and.
Very simple approach, not that hard to understand if still you have a problem with this.
Like pause the video and in the values and try to understand it.
Okay, then why is this working?
Because all the values have been already calculated.
This has been calculated.
And this guy's j minus one is also calculated because this thing in sister DFS will first growing n
sister than any other node.
Eight.
So this is like integrating the who keep our deterrent of an inordinate amount like financier.
I'll be using the same bookbinder approach.
So if you is equal to we.
And simply written.
You.
Well, it's not needed, but let's say I did it now.
What was the second part, guys?
If depth of you see, we have all we have.
We have depth, right?
We are not interfering with the the particle.
So depth of we if it is less in depth of you and so have you, we.
So that depth of you is always less than depth of you.
Now find the difference.
Why the difference?
It will be depth of you.
Minus stepped off.
We?
Police.
So here we have the difference.
And now this what we were doing in the two pointed approach.
If we have this debate, we are moving one, one step ahead in the 2.8 operation.
But here we have calculated the bearings.
Right.
So if I want to go now, I have this difference.
Let's say this difference is equal to any number of X.
What I do is I break down this number and do powers of two and I keep climbing those powers of two until
both of them are on the same height.
Okay.
So basically right now what I want to do is what this node.
You.
I want to go to it.
Different models differ.
This if I if I go to is this different, then both of the nodes will be on the same level.
Okay.
And, yeah.
So what I do is simply.
Oh, sorry.
Let's see.
Do.
Eight.
It started from a minus one.
What does that mean?
The low part.
Not part.
Because now we are breaking down this into.
J minus one study.
J.
It start from a minus one.
And what I will say is if the weight of the number is said, that means if.
Okay, now I'm just doing some normal word manipulation.
I don't think that it's.
It needs explanation.
Very easy.
Normal manipulation.
If.
If they shift e and.
One.
That means the district of Davis said get rid of beef is dead.
So, guys, if the dead word of Davis said, that means if I have a number ten, then it is equal to
10108.
In binary that means it's 0123.
That means it's hard to say and it's possible to say.
So the trade is equal to two to our three best to do power one, which is ten.
Right.
So if that did the British set, then simply use equal to print off.
You Yokohama G.
Race frenetically claimed that our beating of you ain't.
What happens is let's if I want to find their 10th parent, then it will simply say that okay, you
is equal to parent of you three.
That means now I've gone it's I've gone to the two year period of about three parent of you.
And after this, what will happen winning of you?
Bummer.
But after both operation, you will be able to.
It's.
And Spirit.
Thanks.
That's a minor lifting for you.
Eight.
Go ahead.
Towards the end of this loop goes, it is a minus one.
And what is them here?
Log of an approximately log of an.
Well.
And after this, I have known you in.
You and we are on the same level.
Right now.
What I need to do is if they're on the same level.
I want to keep climbing them until they reach the same.
No rate.
But what's better?
What's better?
What?
What's the other thing that I can do if I want?
Both of them do this the same note again.
I lose the money lifting them.
I see this.
Okay.
Let's take this example only.
Understand this.
It's again, an easy thing to understand, and it will just hardly take 2 minutes.
So here is a new thing that let's see if I'm on it.
And if I'm one of 12, I want to go to one eight.
What would be better to use?
I will simply go to two at this point that I want you to go to two and I want to go to the right.
And how will I go from here to two and three?
I will simply see if.
Let me put it.
There are some things which we understand after looking at the code.
But what I say is if.
Veering off you g if it is not equal to veering off.
We do understand this guys.
Then I simply say usually goes to opinion wg and.
B is equal to parent of B.
Yeah.
To see you guys.
It's a very nice thing.
Hey, I.
What I wanted to do was I wanted to climb as above as possible.
But I want the lowest common ancestor.
So what's the difference between other ancestors and the lowest common insistence that from there,
just the down child of the lowest common ancestor.
Both of this child are different.
Eight.
That means if I'm able to go to this node and I'm able to go to this node, then I can simply.
Their parent is equal to the lowest common ancestors.
Before that, what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to go in the powers of two from a very high number,
right?
So to do the power and minus one will be really very high because I won't be so destroyed.
About 22 standard.
About five.
So both of eight into a standard above five, but it will be very high.
They will be equal.
So, guys, I don't want you and me to go there.
Right, because.
We don't have an AC over there now.
Again, pretty one and minus two, then minus three and minus four and will be coming down for the first
time.
We find that okay, both of their spirit, the Nordic, but then we'll simply make them equal to that.
There would keep our jets bearing right where this condition holds.
That parent of huge is equal value parent of BD.
So why are we doing this?
Because.
We want to climb to these nodes, these particular nodes, just just the nodes below my lowest common
ancestor.
And how can I climb them?
I actually do not know their difference rate.
I do not know the difference between these levels.
But what's the best way to find out the difference of these levels?
Just climbing powers of two and three.
You can.
Hey.
So that's what we are trying to do here.
We are just climbing in powers of two.
If we are able to claim that if their parents are not equal, just claim if not equal, just claim,
not equal, just claim and so on.
Okay.
So let me give you an example.
Let's see.
We had some ancestor.
LC Aishwarya Rai.
But listen to this carefully, guys.
Because this is completely based on binding number now and.
Some of you might not be getting this.
So we have this letter, we have some notes, and this is a letter and part one.
And then again a part.
And then this is a you to note.
And similarly, guys, this is the vietnam id.
We have two notes.
You kn we know they're on the same level.
I want to go to these notes.
Let's say the differences and we don't know the world.
We don't know what is the difference.
But let's say this then for the sake of understanding is what happens is when we move into one of two.
What will happen.
He will say that.
You will say that to do the power.
What will be you use 16th period and what will be with 16?
They will be will because ten is of course less than 16.
This is your used in training day.
This is vs 10th period.
These.
This is use 11th variant and also vs 11th variant because you envision on the same height you will 16
variant, it will be equal.
So we won't be going there.
But what will be use it.
Now after 16, it will come late in the loop.
But what is unwise it period.
They will be somewhere over here.
That means they're not equal, right?
They're not equal.
Both are parents and are not equal.
So we will simply claim here.
So now you is equal to this and we are equal to this.
Now what will be guys use for swearing and we for swearing.
If we are over here, guys then use for swearing will be equal.
Do somewhat here.
The burden of that is because if this is 11 to this is the 12th period.
Yeah.
And we are right now on the use it period.
So this is the new you and the new light.
We have climbed the earth, period.
Now we are checking for the fourth spirit.
So again, the fourth parent is equal, so we don't have to climb there.
Now, after that, we will take the youths to earth period so we can see that used to it, but it will
be equal.
But they used to it better than we used to.
It's been and will not be equal.
The second interview in the this interview will not be equal because that is equal to the 10th period
because we have already claimed to date parent eight and we are talking about its second bidder.
No, look that are you.
I hope we are getting this divided and we go to 16 invited and we go to four.
Why are we going?
Only do eight and two.
Because we have to catch up to ten.
Hey, we don't know the difference, but.
We know one thing that both of their parents are not equal.
That means they are in there between Elsie and the root node.
And we don't have to go there.
We have to go just down of NC eight and this condition will.
Make us rich.
Just down side of the road.
So what will be done over here?
What will be dance here will be paid off.
You zero.
Well, yes.
Or it can also be.
Well, the parent of V0, the first variant of the note that I read in the first print of this note,
or I read in the first print of this note, both of them will be a better answer.
Well.
So by using by lifting, I went above and by again using vinyl lifting, I.
And this.
I found out these two notes would just beat anybody else.
You.
Well.
It's been this and.
It's printed.
Again.
What we have is by doing it, let's see if it's working or not, if there are some mistakes in this
or not.
Uh.
912.
Okay.
Before 912.
The giant is one.
Who is the child for not Dannon eight and 911.
The child.
The it's it.
Always.
So I'm doing the same thing here as in the previous problem, but just using some using the advantages
of binding numbers, like how binding numbers are advantages for us.
I like how I can log off and.
Come to us.
For us.
What's the complexity of this?
And it's you finding.
No.
It is simply.
Initially we have done a recalculation, so we are performing in or in the office with roof and a loop
inside it so it becomes off m.
Into.
And this is the complexity of the device more the complexity of an as yet for one query what we are
doing in this we are moving m times here and we are moving m times.
You are nothing related to n so it is off.
Already two of M m is equal to Logan.
Because we won't be used.
We won't need more than log in feelings of any.
Well, this was everything about.
Lowest common ancestor.
Grace, I have told you every approach.
There are more approaches to in there.
There are like.
Much difficult to understand, but these are the best ones.
You know, by using this approach, every problem of yours can be solved.
Well, so.
This is like an NCAA finding and I find I found you in LCA, so let's print out the land of the bathroom.
You do v well, so let's lint.
From you.
To me, this lecture is a little longer, so do not.
But it's interesting too.
Let's say I want to find the land from 9 to 12, the paths from 9 to 12, which I have made this function
call land from your do we land from your domain?
Let's have two terms here you and me eight.
So let's finance you bought it at sea of your do.
It is equal to LCA, you and me.
We have already written the LC apart already perform the DFS, which will calculate the sports metrics
we have this year.
Right.
So what is the length from you do v?
It is simply.
Depth of you plus depth of V minus during the depth of LCA range or depth of LCA.
Well, this.
So the length of it is seven.
So let's take it from nine.
But one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, eight.
So the pardon decision let's take for any some of the buts and.
410 in it, the bodies falling.
One, two, three, four.
Exactly right by him.
Because from 10 to 1 then and this three from 8 to 1, the depth three, four, three plus three, six.
Now it's a break two times it's here because that gleaned from as near to the road is being included
two times what we subjected to from it.
We got 48.
So again, we have found the lens from YouTube in of one time only.
So this takes off one time only.
Hey, so guys, we will share with you some practice problems which you can try to like figure this
whole LC apart.
And it's not big, it's very easy and we haven't used much here.
A dead patent, nothing else.
Nothing is late.
And this is a small school.
If you want to find an NLC.
In so much less time.
It's about optimizations rate base for computer programming.
You see in the next tutorial, guys.
Thank you.